.. _remote_provider_s3:

S3 Provider
===========

The S3 provider uses S3 to store commits remotely in a S3 bucket. Each commit
is stored as an tar archive, with the commit metadata attached as object
metadata. The URI format is::

    s3://<bucket>/<key>

Commits will be created at ``<key>/<commitid>/<archive>.tar.gz``. The commit
metadata will be stored at the ``<commitid>`` level. In addition, the commits
are stored in file named ``titan`` at the root of the repository. This makes it
more efficient to list commits, and allows the :ref:`remote_provider_s3web` to
pull data.

The AWS credentials are pulled using the default AWS credential chain at
the time you do the push or pull operation. So you must have the
``AWS_*`` environment variables set, or use your ``~/.aws`` configuration.
Because the S3 provider uses the standard AWS SDK, all variations of credentials
should be supported, including specifying a profile with ``AWS_PROFILE`` or
using MFA (multi factor authentication) session tokens.  To pull a commit, you
will need ``s3:GetObject`` permissions. To push a commit, you will need
``s3:PutObject`` permissions.

Although not recommended, it is possible to pass ``accessKey``, ``secretKey``,
and ``region`` to the S3 Provider during runtime through CLI parameters::

        s3://<bucket>/<key> -p accessKey=value -p secretKey=value -p region=value

The S3 provider relies on basic AWS APIs to implement its functionality, and as
such has limited scalability.  For example, all commits are stored in a single
metadata file, and there are no provisions for keeping that metadata consistent
in the face of simultaneous pushes. It should only be used for storing
relatively small numbers of commits. Improving this will require a new provider
that includes a robust metadata layer on top of the base S3 functionality.


SSH Specific Parameters
-----------------------

::

    accessKey=aws_access_key_id         AWS Access Key ID
    secretKey=aws_secret_access_key     AWS Secret Access Key
    region=region                       AWS Region